# Ideology-and-Campaign-Finance
In this project, I examine data on the flow of donations in presidential elections from 1980-2016. I ask three key questions:  

1. Across presidential elections from 1980-2016, who are 25 the most prolific donors and what are their political views? 
2. Do "small" donors contribute less often than "large" donors? 
3. What are Corporate Leaders’ donation patterns and how do they vary from the general population?

While my results are limited to the context of the data, I make a number of interesting findings. First, the most prolific donors seem to have more extreme viewpoints and ideologies. Second, there seems to be a negative relationship between the size of contributions and the number of contributions made. This relationship seems to decrease logarithmically. Finally, I find that elites donate more than non-elites on average. I also find that the elites studied may make donations based on the companies they are a part of, and that the distribution of political ideology may be less extreme among elites than it is in the general population. I begin this report by discussing the data, defining key variables and terms, and providing the source of the data. Then, I offer a reflection on the ethical use of this data and my thought process and approach to dealing with those challenges. Then, I conduct my analysis, starting with importing the data, then tidying and cleaning the data, and finally exploring each of the questions above in depth. I conclude by summarizing my findings, acknowledging major limitations, and offering recommendations for future work.
